docs(blog): june-2023 community update (#1880)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/june-2023.md

---
title: "Community Update: June 2023"
date: 2023-07-05T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
cover: /img/posts/2023-summary/blog-banner-june.webp
authors:
  - name: Thulisile Sibanda
    photo: /img/avatars/thulieblack.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/v-thulisile-sibanda/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Manager
excerpt: 'June Community Update'
featured: true
---

> Over the last few months, we have seen a significant surge in people interested in using AsyncAPI to document and define event-driven architectures. We've received feedback on how it has been challenging to reuse objects effectively, like servers, messages, channels, and even author AsyncAPI documents. If you are one of those individuals, we have excellent news; [Fran](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fmvilas), [Samir](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amzani/), and the team have been working on redesigning the AsyncAPI Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the last few months, we have seen a significant surge in people interested in using AsyncAPI to document and define event-driven architectures. We've received feedback on how it has been challenging to reuse objects effectively, like servers, messages, channels, and even author AsyncAPI documents. If you are one of those individuals, we have excellent news; [Fran Méndez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fmvilas), [Samir Amzani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amzani/), and the team have been working on redesigning the AsyncAPI Studio.
```

> This redesign aims to enhance the developer experience and ensure the quality of AsyncAPI files and tools. Additionally, we are trying out [the Shape Up dashboard](https://shapeit.app/projects/org/asyncapi/16) to coordinate with the development and redesign process. Please [join the discussion](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio/issues/634) if you wish to keep up with the progress or contribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This redesign aims to enhance the developer experience and ensure the quality of AsyncAPI files and tools. Additionally, we are trying out [the Shape Up dashboard](https://shapeit.app/projects/org/asyncapi/16) to coordinate with the development and redesign process. Please [join the AsyncAPI Studio discussion](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio/issues/634) if you wish to keep up with the progress or contribute.
```

The [Call for Speakers for AACoT London Edition is now open](https://conference.asyncapi.com/), and we welcome anyone who has a talk that can benefit or wants to share their experience with the AsyncAPI community to submit their session before the deadline on the 28th of July.

We've been in touch with the speakers for AACoT Madrid Edition and are thrilled to have received exceptional talks from industry experts. We're working on creating a schedule and a rich program that will benefit all attendees.

## Code of Conduct Committee
During April, we started the [discussion around refreshing the AsyncAPI Code of Conduct (CoC)](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/682), and we have received a positive response from the community thus far. As part of the conversation, we are establishing a CoC Committee that will enforce and ensure that everyone in the community follows the CoC and doesn't violate it. 
In line with that, we are encouraging everyone to participate in nominating three individuals who are part of the [Technical Steering Committee](https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc) to become our first Code of Conduct Committee. 

> >Drop a comment with your nominations to the [Code of Conduct Refresh discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/682).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Drop a comment with your nominations to the [AsyncAPI Code of Conduct Refresh discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/682).
```

Everyone must be involved, which helps keep our community safe and inclusive.

## Spec x Tooling

> We are thrilled to announce that the [API documentation for Modelina](https://modelina.org/docs/api) is now digitalized. This makes it easier to find information on how to use Modelina's features, and the best part is that it automatically updates when the source code changes. Additionally, we have added integration tests for TypeScript, PHP, C++, and Kotlin, be sure to try them out today and let us know what you think.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are thrilled to announce that the [API documentation for Modelina](https://modelina.org/docs/api) is now digitalized. This makes it easier to find information on how to use Modelina's features, and the best part is that it automatically updates when the source code changes. Also, we have added integration tests for TypeScript, PHP, C++, and Kotlin. Please be sure to try them out today and let us know what you think.
```

## AsyncAPI Mentorship Program

> After receiving an overwhelming response from folks all over the community about the mentorship program application, we are moving a step closer to the announcements of this year's AsyncAPI Mentorship Program Cohort Two mentees. Our gratitude goes out to all our mentors who dedicate their time to viewing applications to select the best candidates and mentoring. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After receiving an overwhelming response from folks all over the community about the mentorship program application, we are moving closer to the announcements of this year's mentees for the AsyncAPI Mentorship Program Cohort Two. Our gratitude goes out to all our mentors who dedicate their time reviewing applications to select the best candidates to mentor. 
```

Please keep your eyes on the announcement by following [the AsyncAPI Mentorship discussion](https://github.com/orgs/asyncapi/discussions/689#discussioncomment-6028934).

## AsyncAPI Bounty Program Update
The trial for the AsyncAPI Bounty Program has been progressing exceptionally well. Most of the issues have been successfully completed and compensated. We anticipate the remaining two issues to be wrapped up within the next few days. 

We are excited to observe the success of this trial and its contribution towards our community goals.

> ## In case you missed it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## In Case You Missed It
```

Making it consistent with all other headers.

Are you looking to enhance your knowledge about AsyncAPI and its tools? Check out this onboarding video to gain a deeper understanding.

<YouTube id="XfQjh16D1NA" />

If you missed [Ace's](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acebuild/) workshop on building a headless commerce architecture using the AsyncAPI specification and AMQP, there's no need to worry. You can catch up by watching the recording.

<YouTube id="V3Op2A08UQs" />

## Coming in July
- **AsyncAPI Community Updates Newsletter** - The next issue will drop in July's first week. Stay informed about the latest community activities by [subscribing to the AsyncAPI Newsletter](https://www.asyncapi.com/newsletter). 

> - **Open Standards and Private Products, with Valériane Venance** - We will host [Valériane Venance](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vvenance/), Principal Developer Advocate at Bump.sh, on the 13th of July at 9 am UTC as we tackle the topic "Open Standards and Private Products: A DevRel's Dream or Nightmare". Mark your calendars, and [be sure to join in](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/issues/775).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Open Standards and Private Products, with Valériane Venance** - We will host [Valériane Venance](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vvenance/), Principal Developer Advocate at Bump.sh, on the [13th of July at 9 am UTC as we tackle the topic "Open Standards and Private Products: A DevRel's Dream or Nightmare"](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/issues/775). Mark your calendars, and be sure to join.
```
